dockers/nodejs/with-aws-cli/README.md, before:

## Getting started

Just run the command below

```bash
docker-compose up --build -d
```

Interactive mode

```bash
# Build command with docker
docker build -t node-alpine-14 .
docker run -d --name node-alpine-14 -p 5000:5000

# run as interactive mode
docker exec -it node10-awscli-test /bin/sh
```

## Troubleshooting

I'm not sure if aws cli works on alpine (https://github.com/aws/aws-cli/issues/4685)

With Dockerfile below, once the container is up and running, `aws` command is not registerd once you execute it inside the container. Then, when I tried to install aws cli, I'm getting error below...

```text
./aws/install
./aws/install: line 78: /aws/dist/aws: not found
Found preexisting AWS CLI installation: /usr/local/aws-cli/v2/current. Please rerun install script with --update flag.
/ # ./aws/install --update
./aws/install: line 78: /aws/dist/aws: not found
Found same AWS CLI version: /usr/local/aws-cli/v2/. Skipping install.
/ # aws --version
/bin/sh: aws: not found
```

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14-alpine
RUN apk update && apk add \
  curl \
  unzip
RUN curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/awscli-exe-linux-x86_64.zip" -o "awscliv2.zip"
RUN unzip -o awscliv2.zip
RUN ./aws/install
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN yarn install
CMD ["node", "index.js"]
```

Commit message:

Push with-aws-cli to docker hub

dockers/nodejs/with-aws-cli/README.md, after:


Using `ubuntu:20.04` (see ubuntu versions: https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu/) to create a docker image with nodejs (https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/mdhdocker/ubuntu-node). Then use it to start an express app.

## 1. Build an image and push to repository

```bash
# Build the container - need to build with tag name with the tag at the end
docker build -t mdhdocker/ubuntu-node-awscli:14 ./createImg
# Login to the docker hub
docker login
# Push
docker push mdhdocker/ubuntu-node-awscli:14

# Update the tag (in the future)
docker push mdhdocker/ubuntu-node-awscli:<new tagname>
```
## 2. Getting started

Just run the command below

```bash
docker-compose up --build -d
```

Interactive mode

```bash
# Build command with docker
docker build -t node-alpine-14 .
docker run -d --name node-alpine-14 -p 5000:5000

# run as interactive mode
docker exec -it node14-awscli-test /bin/sh
```

## Troubleshooting

I'm not sure if aws cli works on alpine (https://github.com/aws/aws-cli/issues/4685)

With Dockerfile below, once the container is up and running, `aws` command is not registerd once you execute it inside the container. Then, when I tried to install aws cli, I'm getting error below...

```text
./aws/install
./aws/install: line 78: /aws/dist/aws: not found
Found preexisting AWS CLI installation: /usr/local/aws-cli/v2/current. Please rerun install script with --update flag.
/ # ./aws/install --update
./aws/install: line 78: /aws/dist/aws: not found
Found same AWS CLI version: /usr/local/aws-cli/v2/. Skipping install.
/ # aws --version
/bin/sh: aws: not found
```

```Dockerfile
FROM node:14-alpine
RUN apk update && apk add \
  curl \
  unzip
RUN curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/awscli-exe-linux-x86_64.zip" -o "awscliv2.zip"
RUN unzip -o awscliv2.zip
RUN ./aws/install
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN yarn install
CMD ["node", "index.js"]
```
